Today we will go deeper into one of
the key concepts to understand a
sector, to understand the competitive
struggle, to understand the
profitabilities that a company
can get and are the barriers to entry.
In the previous class Michael
Porter already determined that one
of the five forces was the threat
of potential competitors and
depending on whether there was
more threat or less threat, that
influenced competitive warfare
and ultimately in those who talk
about entry barriers, such as
Warren Buffett, who is the investor
who has demonstrated more skill
to identify good opportunities
in the world and Warren Buffett
tells us that he only invests
in that are like a castle that
have a pit around, to him,
he calls the pit to the entry
barrier and says he wants
that pit to be full of sharks
to protect from the threats
of potential competitors.
They only invest in where they
consider the entry barrier
to be too big.
By the way, the entry barrier depends
on where you look at it, it is an
advantage or an inconvenience, if
you are within the sector, if
you are of those who share the
game in the sector, well, because
the entry barrier benefits you a lot.
If you are out, then the opposite,
because it is much harder
to enter.
What happens in a business
when there are no barriers?
When there are no barriers to entry,
a sector becomes a red ocean,
which we have already explained
many times.
What happens is that competitive
warfare increases, there
are price wars, etc.,
because anyone can compete,
right?
But well, what I really think is
interesting today is that we
analyze what are the factors or
some of the main factors
that encourage you to be protected,
right?
They encourage that entry
barrier and I think it’
s very enriching to think
and understand the entry barriers
for at any level.
And indeed, anyone who has a business
or who is a manager of a company should
think about how to set up entry
barriers, how to protect yourself
from your competitors,
because there are many mechanisms
to do so, right?
Let’s not just think of, I don’
t know, huge companies, but that
applies to all levels.
And let us start.
Let us look at the main factors.
Economics is always mentioned.
What is a Scale Economy?
Scale economy is when to compete
in a sector you have to
be very, very, very large.
If you are not very big, you can’t compete.
We will think of sectors, for example,
such as the large distribution.
A common example of scale economy
is Walmart, which is probably
the largest retailer in the
United States.
Well, then to compete with Walmart
or to compete with Amazon,
for example, to compete in certain
sectors, you have to be huge,
because if you are not huge,
you don’t have the power to negotiate
with suppliers, to get
advantageous conditions
that allow you to be
competitive.
There are sectors in which there
is no need, but in sectors where
the sensitivity to the price is
usually very high by the buyer,
because you are able to offer those
prices thanks to the scale
you have reached or if you
are not out.
A huge barrier of entry that is relatively
recent, which we have already studied
in the course of platform strategy,
are those that José del Barrio
spoke to us, who he invested
in marketplaces mainly for
this, by the network economies
that were generated.
It is protection, remember,
that occurs at the moment
you add to all supply
and demand.
So, and that you have reached a huge
critical mass and that allows
you to generate a lot of value,
but all those below, who do not
have that critical mass, can not
generate the value you generate
and are also blocked,
right?
And this is given in marketplaces,
on platforms at all levels and I
put you one in Spain, Bookme.
Bookme is a marketplace
that connects beauty centers,
hairdressers, etc., with
customers, mainly with clients,
right?
I’m not talking about Amazon,
I’m talking about a local
or national marketplace
in Spain.
Well, because it has generated an enormous
barrier of entry because it has added
to the main beauty centers in
Spain, then it provides a lot
of value to customers, but of course,
if I now wanted to compete from scratch
with Bookme, because it would
have a lot, a lot of difficulty,
imagine, because it would have
to start convincing beauty centers
when Bookme already
exists, right?
And it would not be worth it to
one or another.
Another major barrier to entry
is the brand.
When you have a brand, when you are
able to build a love mark, a very
powerful brand with which customers
feel identified, recognized
worldwide, well, at the local
level, but very powerful,
of course, it protects
you a lot.
There are examples, the most extreme
examples, because it could be, then,
for example, Coca-Cola, right?
Nike is a brand worldwide.
So, back to Warren Buffett.
Warren Buffett once said that if you
offer him $100 billion and challenge
him to take away Coca-Cola’s elite,
the protection that Coca-Cola has
is so great that he would tell
you that you’ll stay with the
$100 billion that’s impossible,
right?
And one of the reasons for that, one
of the main reasons is the brand that
Coca-Cola has, which is irreplaceable.
Another entry barrier is in the
case where you, in order to enter
to compete in a sector, need to
make a huge investment.
Of course, companies that are within
sectors in which you have to
invest a lot of money to
enter are more protected than
those in which it takes very
little.
You think you have to make investments
in immobilized like the
one we have on screen.
Well, then, it’s more, there are
fewer people outside the sector who
have the ability to access financial
resources to invest hundreds
of millions or tens of millions,
right?
assets of this type.
Now, let’s go to the exchange costs.
It’s a concept that we’ve seen several
times too and I would like
you to understand well.
There are sectors, and I go back to the
software sector, which I have already
put as an example on other occasions,
there are sectors that have their
customers stuck.
I have lived it because I have been a
strategic consultant for various software
manufacturers and have lived,
have lived that, have lived the effect
that is given.
Customers, however
dissatisfied they may be,
in some cases will not change
or have, are very discouraged
to change.
Imagine the huge barrier that
it is, the huge protection
that it is for software
manufacturers.
Because if you want to enter,
if you want to enter a market of
this type and you have to convince those
customers for whom to change
is very difficult, because, of
course, the complication increases a lot.
For those outside, for those
outside, say, for competitors
it is very complicated and for
those inside, the current
software manufacturers benefit
a lot.
Another common entry barrier is
that you have preferential access
to the resources that are needed
to compete.
And here we are talking about very
different cases, because I can put
the case that you have access to
natural resources.
For example, a Saudi oil
company with good relations
with the government.
You have access to resources
that your competitors or potential
competitors do not have.
But let’s not go to such examples,
we can go to closer things.
If you have, as we saw in the
case of Infinite Finders, at
the time you have a gym, that you
have a profitable gym in a given
location, in a neighborhood,
because you are discouraging the
entry of potential competitors.
That creates a certain barrier
to entry, because they
won’t venture to ride a
gym near your own.
When you have the resource
located, when you have the location,
at that point you are protecting
your business.
Another common entry barrier
is patents.
When you have a patent, your
business is protected for a while.
And there are companies that have been
able to exploit this, such as Tetra Pak
with the patent of the Tetra
Brick, which has been one of the most
profitable in history.
And there are industries that
are really like the pharmaceutical
industry, which are almost
organized around this.
That is, why invest hundreds
of millions in R&D, permanent,
etc.? to
Well, because when they are
able to create profitable
patents, their business,
as we say, is protected for a
long time.
They are able to have a high
return on those R&D investments, mainly
because of this, mainly
because of the protection it
implies.
If their weren’t protected,
they’d probably not invest
so much, because they won’
t get that return.
The last one we will look at is
legal protection.
Legal protection is also given in
very different ways.
It can be given on a small scale,
for example, in local that
need a license.
The pharmacy business in Spain
is protected by, why? for
the simple reason that you
can not freely open a pharmacy.
This means that the profitability within
the sector increases considerably.
Imagine changing the legislation.
Imagine that the large food distribution
in the supermarkets, etc.,
could sell medicines.
Anyone can build a pharmacy.
At that time, the profits would
fall to the pharmacies.
Well, the profits, I don’t know,
would fall mainly in sales.
Because your business would let you be protected.
They would lose that entry barrier
they have, which is one of
the valuants for profitability they get.
Another form of protection
is protectionism, let us
say protectionism.
There are countries where
local competitors benefit
from certain conditions
than foreigners do.
This is a barrier
to entry.
Well, to finish I want you to
be in the sector you are always
thinking about entry barriers
and thinking about how you generate
those entry barriers.
How to protect your business
against competitors.
This will be one of the key factors
that will determine sustained
profitability in the medium term.
There are many mechanisms
that create barriers to entry.
Some are not available to
everyone.
Not everyone can build a super
powerful brand, a worldwide
love brand.
But on a small scale, yes,
on a small scale, we can all
think of entry barriers.
We can all think about
identifying mechanisms that
protect our business.
Establish relationships exclusively
with suppliers that may generate
a competitive advantage
in the market.
Establish relationships with distribution
channels, with partners that position
us better than others and
that protect our business.
Well, there are many possibilities.